README.md, before:

# Vera Prometheus exporter

This is a plugin for [Vera][1] controllers which adds a [Prometheus][2] metrics
exporter.

[1]: http://getvera.com/
[2]: https://prometheus.io/

## Exported metrics

The plugin currently exports gauge metrics for a few different types of
sensors and devices:

Sensors:

 - Temperature sensors: `temperature_c`
 - Humidity sensors: `humidity_relative`
 - Light sensors: `light_lux`

Devices:

 - Dimmable bulbs: `dimmable_load_percent`

System:

 - Various system metrics from `/proc/stat`, attempting to be compatible with
 the Prometheus `node_exporter` exporter (`node_cpu`, `node_intr`,
 `node_context_switches`, `node_boot_time`, `node_forks`,
 `node_procs_running`, `node_procs_blocked`)

## Installation

Upload all of the `.xml` and `.lua` files in this repository to your Vera
controller.

In UI7, you can do this by navigating to `Apps`, `Develop apps`, `Luup files`
on your controller’s web interface.

Check that the metrics are being properly exported by pointing your browser or
a tool like curl to

```
http://<yourveraip>:49451/data_request?id=lr_prometheus_metrics
```

TODO: Publish this to the mios app store. Please contact me if you are
interested in this plugin and would like me to publish it to the app store.

## Configuration

The metrics are not exposed on the default `/metrics` path that most
Prometheus exporters expose their metrics on, so a little extra configuration
is needed. An example snippet to add to the `scrape_configs` section of your
`prometheus.yml` is:

```yaml
  - job_name: 'vera'
    scrape_interval: 15s
    metrics_path: /data_request?id=lr_prometheus_metrics
    target_groups:
      - targets: ['192.168.8.68:49451']
```

Of course, you should change the IP address in the example (`192.168.8.68`) to
the IP address of your Vera controller.

## License

Licensed under the GPLv3. See the `LICENSE` file for more details.

## Contributing

Pull requests and bug reports welcome!

Commit message:

Export node metrics from /proc/meminfo

README.md, after:

# Vera Prometheus exporter

This is a plugin for [Vera][1] controllers which adds a [Prometheus][2] metrics
exporter.

[1]: http://getvera.com/
[2]: https://prometheus.io/

## Exported metrics

The plugin currently exports gauge metrics for a few different types of
sensors and devices:

Sensors:

 - Temperature sensors: `temperature_c`
 - Humidity sensors: `humidity_relative`
 - Light sensors: `light_lux`

Devices:

 - Dimmable bulbs: `dimmable_load_percent`

System:

 - Various system metrics from `/proc/stat`, attempting to be compatible with
 the Prometheus `node_exporter` exporter (`node_cpu`, `node_intr`,
 `node_context_switches`, `node_boot_time`, `node_forks`,
 `node_procs_running`, `node_procs_blocked`)
 - Various system metrics from `/proc/meminfo`, attempting to be compatible
 with the Prometheus `node_exporter` exporter (`node_memory_*`)

## Installation

Upload all of the `.xml` and `.lua` files in this repository to your Vera
controller.

In UI7, you can do this by navigating to `Apps`, `Develop apps`, `Luup files`
on your controller’s web interface.

Check that the metrics are being properly exported by pointing your browser or
a tool like curl to

```
http://<yourveraip>:49451/data_request?id=lr_prometheus_metrics
```

TODO: Publish this to the mios app store. Please contact me if you are
interested in this plugin and would like me to publish it to the app store.

## Configuration

The metrics are not exposed on the default `/metrics` path that most
Prometheus exporters expose their metrics on, so a little extra configuration
is needed. An example snippet to add to the `scrape_configs` section of your
`prometheus.yml` is:

```yaml
  - job_name: 'vera'
    scrape_interval: 15s
    metrics_path: /data_request?id=lr_prometheus_metrics
    target_groups:
      - targets: ['192.168.8.68:49451']
```

Of course, you should change the IP address in the example (`192.168.8.68`) to
the IP address of your Vera controller.

## License

Licensed under the GPLv3. See the `LICENSE` file for more details.

## Contributing

Pull requests and bug reports welcome!
